>> Brian Holt: Welcome to
the Complete Intro to React V5,
I am stoked to be back
here teaching this again.
This is my favorite course.
I'll probably repeat that like
17 times today, it's prophetic.
>> Brian Holt: So
the complete Intro to React,
this is gonna go over the entirety
of like how to write React.
And we go over all the latest features,
which is gonna be things like hooks.
And it's gonna be all the new fun that
comes with that such as context and
portals and
all sorts of really cool stuff.
And updating some of those things
from the version four of this course.
As well it's gonna be going over some
of the other APIs like classes and
life cycles and things like that.
So you get a handle on
all that kind of stuff.
The first thing I want you to do is,
I want you to head to this bit.ly so
B I T L Y /react-v5 and
should land on this page here.
Just so you know,
these are my course notes,
this is what we're gonna be going over.
So I have another Surface right here,
that's all I have up here.
So if you fall behind or
you need to come up to date or
anything like that,
you can just read this as well.
Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So
>> Brian Holt: You
do not have to have taken the previous
versions of this course to watch V5,
right this is actually it's V5 in
the sense that it's the fifth iteration.
So you start from zero, you don't have to
watch any of the other ones to get here.
That being said, V3 actually is still
useful if you need to talk about web pack.
If you need to talk about react router, or
any of those things, everything in
V3 is still very much up to date.
So that's out there if you need
some of those things as well.
>> Brian Holt: This is meant
to be mostly modular, right?
So that you can kinda skip
from lesson to lesson,
but the way that you have to do
that is moving between git commits.
So if I go to
github.com/BTholt/complete-intro-to-react-
-V5, there's a link to it as
well in the course notes.
>> Brian Holt: Repo.
>> Brian Holt: The repo is here,
right there.
So if you go to this page and you scroll
down to where it says the repo is here and
you click on that it will take you to
here, which is the repo for the course.
And inside of here,
you can click on the commits.
And you can see all of the commits for
this project, right.
So each section of this course
moves forward in one commit.
So you can see if you
click on one of these,
you can see what's been added right?
Or if you click on one of these,
you can see that this got deleted or
this got updated or something like that.
So this will actually be really helpful
to show you the divs between each part of
the course if you need to
walk through that as well.
>> Brian Holt: If you want to start in the
middle of one of these, you can actually
just say I want to start with useState and
custom hooks and things like that.
There's actually a program
out here called Sourcetree,
that I'm going to suggest that you get.
You can get the Sourcetreeapp.com.
I already have it installed.
And if you clone the repo and
point Sourcetree to it, no,
why would I update this.
Skip version.
[LAUGH] Just kidding.
Update all of your things.
But, so you can see here I have
this open here in Sourcetree.
So if I wanna go back
to this commit in time,
I can actually just say right-click
on here and say Checkout.
It's gonna say,
are you sure you want to do this?
Right, so first of all, this will blow
away any changes that you have made.
So be be careful of that, right?
But I'm gonna say okay.
And this will actually move me
back to that commit, right?
So now my repo will be in that state,
and I can keep going forward, right?
But if wanna move forward again,
I can just say I wanna go to
where we add React router.
We can see all the divs down here as well.
>> Brian Holt: I can just right-click
on this and say checkout.
>> Brian Holt: And now I will be up here.
And then ultimately the last commit
in here that's you're interested
in is that theme context
that's the end of this course.
So that's like the what the state of
the master branch is in right now.
All of these other branches are for
intermediate React
which you can also watch that later
after you're done with this course.
So that's really helpful as well.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see.
Going back to the page here.
You'll also see these,
branches things with that.
Those will tell you where
there are commit points right.
But I'll be very forthcoming and
calling out this is the commit
that you need to go forward.
I'll tell you which commit
message you wanna go forward to.
>> Brian Holt: So
Sourcetree is really great.
If you know how to use git on
the commandline, you can also use that.
You can also use GitHub Desktop.
I just showed you Source Tree,
because I think that's
the easiest one to start using.
I'd also suggest Git In-depth,
which is a course from
Nino Zacharenko on Frontend Masters.
It's a fantastic course that you should
take that'll teach you everything you need
to know about Git.
>> Brian Holt: Where to file issues,
this course is obviously gonna have some
mistakes and it's gonna have spelling
errors and things like that.
I would,
if you could open a pull request or
file an issue that would
be super helpful as well.
This lovely forehead is mine.
Who am I?
So my name is Brian Holt.
I am a Senior Program Manager
at Microsoft.
I work on JavaScript on Azure and Visual
Studio Code, but for the most part my
job is to make Azure a place that you
want to deploy your node.js code.
I'm frequently here in Frontend Masters,
I love it here.
I'll never teach on probably
any other platform again.
And I'm really grateful for
them to keep inviting me back and for
everything they do for that.
I'm also sometimes on Frontend Happy Hour,
which is a podcast where it's descriptive,
we get drunk and we talk about JavaScript.
Previously I was a staff
engineer at LinkedIn,
I've been a senior engineer at Netflix and
Reddit.
I also worked at these smaller Salt Lake
City based companies Needle and KSL and
New Skin.
I'm also on the board of Vets Who Code,
which I think is a fantastic organization
worth your time and donations.
And I also co-founded
with another friend and
master Sarah Dresner
a conference called Concatenate,
which is the biggest JavaScript
conference that we know of in Africa.
>> Brian Holt: Just some more about me.
I live in Seattle with my wife and my dog.
As you'll see throughout this
course I absolutely love dogs.
I have a little Havanese and
she's adorable.
And I love to travel.
I've been to 40 or
50 countries at this point.
I took 97 flights last year.
That's an interesting fact.
Took the flu almost 300,000 miles.
I will never do that again.
And please catch up with me on Twitter,
Instagram, GitHub, LinkedIn.
If you add me to LinkedIn I'll
definitely add you back.
So no worries there.
Why was this course created?
I just want to give a huge shout to
the crew here at Frontend Masters.
They've been amazing to work with, and
one of my favorite things about that is
that this course is actually open source.
So this website that you're looking at
here, please share it with everyone.
I love that they allow me to come in and
do these courses and
have these trainings and pay me to do it.
And at the same time,
allow me to open source these so
that they're available to everyone.
I think the videos are great.
That's why I put a lot
of time into these and
that's why I think we can charge for them.
But I think that that knowledge
should be freely shared.
And I'm really grateful that
Frontend Masters encourages me to do these
kind of things.
And last thing here, if you wanna start
the repo on GitHub that would be great.
It strokes my ego and that's
the important part, [LAUGH] just kidding.
It does help it get farther reach
which is always a good thing as well.
>> Brian Holt: And with that, yeah, we'll
start getting into learning some React.